Moving to serve where the need
for Kingdom preachers is greater
can be intimidating.
Before moving, we cannot know all the details
of what our life will be like.
However, the Bible can give us
the wisdom to successfully meet
any challenges we face after moving.
We must put faith in it.
Faith can motivate us
to seize opportunities to serve Jehovah.
Please locate Hebrews 11:8-10.
Abram’s willingness to leave
what was comfortable and familiar
and move to a new land
when he was in his 70’s
was a powerful demonstration of faith.
Let’s read Hebrews 11:8-10:
“By faith Abraham, when he was called,
“obeyed by going out to a place
“he was to receive as an inheritance;
“he went out, although
not knowing where he was going.
“By faith he lived as a foreigner in the land
“of the promise as in a foreign land,
“living in tents with Isaac and Jacob,
“the heirs with him of the very same promise.
“For he was awaiting
the city having real foundations,
whose designer and builder is God.”
He didn’t even know where
he was being assigned, but he went.
Based on his faith, he knew
that the real life was not back home.
It was not in his new assignment.
He looked for the fulfillment
of future promises.
Did Abraham and Sarah face
any difficulties along the way?
Yes, they did.
Unexpected circumstances
were thrust upon them.
But did Jehovah see them through?
Find Genesis 20:3-7.
To protect his life, Abraham
called Sarah his sister.
So the king of Gerar
felt he could take her as his wife.
This was a difficult time
for Abraham and Sarah.
Did Jehovah work things out?
Let’s read Genesis 20:3-7:
“Afterward, God came by night
“to Abimelech in a dream and said to him:
“‘Here you are as good as dead
because of the woman
“‘whom you have taken, since she is married
“and belongs to another man.’
“However, Abimelech had not gone near her.
“So he said: ‘Jehovah,
“‘will you kill a nation
that is really innocent?
“‘Did he not say to me, “She is my sister,”
“‘and did she too not say,
“He is my brother”?
“‘I did this with an honest heart
“and innocent hands.’
“Then the true God said to him in the dream:
“‘I know that you did this
with an honest heart,
“‘so I held you back from sinning against me.
“‘That is why I did not allow
you to touch her.
“‘Now return the man’s wife,
“‘for he is a prophet,
and he will make supplication
“‘for you and you will keep living.
“‘But if you are not returning her,
“‘know that you will surely die,
you and all who are yours.’”
Jehovah will be with us too
if we act in faith to expand our ministry.
We will get through the surprises
and enjoy the rewards
of reaching out in this way.
Although we cannot know all the challenges
that we may encounter,
we can take practical steps
to choose a location
and prepare to make adjustments.
Do you remember Jesus’ words at Luke 14:28?
He indicated that a person
who wanted “to build a tower”
would first “calculate the expense
to see if he has enough to complete it.”
That was practical.
And we can do the same
when contemplating relocating
to where the need is greater.
We can get a taste of the blessings
we will experience
by participating in preaching campaigns
organized by the branch office or working
seldom-worked territory.
Might you have the circumstances
to move where the need is greater?
If you’re interested
in serving in another land,
do careful research and speak
to your congregation elders.
They can forward your letter
to the branch office
of the country that interests you.
If you’re unable to move to another land,
what is another option?
You can, through your elders,
write to the local branch office
for information
about congregations that have a need.
Your circuit overseer can provide information
about nearby congregations
that may need help.
In the following video, note how one brother
overcame his fear of serving
where the need is greater.
If you had told me two years ago that I’d
be moving to where the need was greater,
I would have laughed.
It all started when they announced
a special preaching campaign.
My friend Samuel
encouraged me to apply with him.
So, what do you think?
Uh, yeah,
no, but you enjoy that.
I know you’re going to love it.
That’s why I got you a form as well,
all right?
We can do this!
OK.
I knew I could do more,
but I was comfortable.
I like doing things on my own terms.
But really, I was afraid of the unknown.
I needed to examine my heart.
When I read about Abraham’s faith
at Hebrews 11:8,
it’s like the words jumped off the page.
“He went out although
not knowing where he was going.”
Who better to be in control
of my life than Jehovah?
A door was opened to me.
I just needed to go through it.
And what I experienced changed my life.
Let’s do it, man.
The results of the campaign were incredible!
And the experience pushed me
out of my comfort zone.
All right, Gabriel is going to try some food.
Try, try, try!
Go on, go on, give it a try, Gabriel!
It’s good, yeah—really good!
I saw the ministry in a new way,
and I wanted to do more.
So I calculated the cost
and worked
with my local elders
to write to the branch office.
When I heard back with some suggestions,
I prayed about it
and did research before choosing.
There were many unknowns,
but I couldn’t wait!
It was hard to say goodbye to my friends,
but I was ready for whatever
Jehovah had in store for me.
Did you notice how faith was shown
and what blessings resulted?
The young brother admitted he was
in a comfort zone.
Another brother invited him to join
in a special preaching campaign.
Our brother was hesitant to reach out.
However, he read about Abraham.
What did he conclude?
He said, “Who better to be
in control of my life than Jehovah?”
He thoroughly enjoyed the experience
of the special campaign.
It fired him up!
And the next thing we know,
he is relocating to another congregation
that needed help.
Although you will need to make sacrifices
and you may face unexpected challenges,
you will gain many blessings,
drawing ever closer to Jehovah.
There is no need to worry
about the good things
you may be denied temporarily.
Jehovah knows what you presently need
and will supply it to you
on time.
Luke 12:31 advises:
“Keep seeking [God’s] Kingdom,
and [all the] things [you need]
will be added to you.”
As a single person or as a family,
consider if you can move
to where the need is greater.
Brother Mark Noumair,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
will now consider
the next talk of this symposium,
“Enter the Door to Activity in Faith
—Apply for the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers.”